What Role Does a Description Play in a Pull Request?
Providing descriptions for pull requests is highly recommended for a better code review process. Descriptions clearly answer:

What can reviewers expect while reviewing the submitted code?
What standards has the developer considered before submitting their code for review?
Later, the reviewers can initiate an open discussion between themselves and the developers to track every code change before those changes are pushed into repositories.

What is a Pull Request Template?
When you initiate a new pull request for an implemented feature or a bug fix in your project repository, you can allow the description field to pre-populate with  a checklist of items relevant to your team, like the checklist provided in the previous section. This process of exhibiting the pre-filled description field in pull request form is often referred to as a Pull Request or Merge Request Template.
For an automatic pre-population of details in the description field, you must first define your own set of templates and then add them to the project’s root directory.
You can also create multiple templates separately for bugs, features, documentation, etc..
The description templates are usually drafted as Markdown files and should be added to the appropriate directory of your project repository. 
The naming of a directory, as well as the handling of single and multiple templates in your project repositories, differs based on what service you prefer to use:
GitHub or GitLab. For the purposes of this article, we are going to focus on GitHub.

If your project repository is on GitHub, the name of the template and where it’s located in your repository matters a lot. The template created as a Markdown file should be named PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md by default and placed in either the project’s root folder or .github directory.

Create a Markdown file, name it PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, and place it in the project’s root folder.

Pull Request Template Markdown file
Or, create a directory, name it .github, and place the Markdown file in this folder.

pull request template GitHub folder
NOTE: Make sure to place the Markdown file within one of the previously mentioned locations and save and merge it with the same name.
Now, when you create a new pull request, you will see the template content automatically loaded into the description field as shown in the following image.

Create new pull request
Utilizing Pull Request Templates in GitKraken
As we briefly mentioned earlier, GitKraken supports pull request templates committed to remote repos on GitHub, GitLab, or VSTS (including Azure DevOps with legacy VSTS URLs).

When you create a new pull request in GitKraken, the Pull Request Template drop-down menu will appear, allowing you to select a
pull request you have created in one of your repositories. This allows you to easily and quickly fill in your pull request using all the information
designated on your pre-drafted template.  

How to Create Multiple Pull Request Templates in GitHub
It wouldn’t be sensible to use the same description template for different categories of pull requests. For example, you may need to initiate a pull request for submitting the code changes of a newly implemented feature, a simple bug fix, documentation, or any kind of configuration work. It would be best for each of these pull request links to load and pre-populate different template contents in the description fields based on the submitted pull request category.

To make use of different templates, you must first create multiple template files and save them as separate Markdown files in your repository, as explained in the following steps:

Create a folder named PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE and place it within either the root directory or the directory named .github.
Create multiple template Markdown files and place them all in the folder PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.
NOTE: The Markdown files created in this process can be named as you choose, but the folder mentioned in the first step must have the name PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.
Pull Request Templates for Bug FixesPull Request Template New Feature
If you do have multiple template files in GitHub, you will always need to manually navigate to the URL of the specific Markdown file you want to pre-populate in the pull request form.

For example, I’m creating a Markdown file and naming it bug-template.md. I place it in the PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE folder of my main repository. When I want to push some changes into this main repository, I will initiate a new pull request. To pre-populate my pull request form with the content of the bug-template.md file, I need to navigate to the URL by passing an additional template parameter:

https://github.com/Scheduler_Project/compare/master…Test_branch?expand=1&template=bug-template.md

Here, Scheduler-Project refers to the name of my main repository and I’m trying to merge the code changes from the Test_branch into my master branch. At the end of the URL, there’s template=bug-template.md to pre-populate the content of the bug-template.md file into my pull request form.

NOTE: You can also refer to the GitHub help documentation, which explains how to use template query parameters in the URL.
Now, after making these URL changes, you can see the description content being loaded in the pull request form as follows.

URL change for pull request
You can edit the previous description with relevant details and click the Create pull request button, which will open your submitted pull request page as follows.

submitted pull request page


